---
layout: post
title: How Much to Pay a South African Car Guard
description: I try to determine a fair car guard price using my own reasoning
---

If you're like me, you might find it difficult to keep up with the going rate for a car guard. A few years ago, R2 was generally what I'd pay but nowadays I'm scorned at for giving a measly R5. Of course this value depends on a few factors. Nonetheless, I wanted to try and determine a fair car guard price myself.
 
1. **Base rate**<br>
Car guarding is a fairly low skill job so the minimum wage should make a good base rate. South Africa's current minimum wage for a security guard is R16.78 per hour ([source](http://www.mywage.co.za/main/salary/minimum-wages)). There are different minimum wages for different working sectors, but I feel that car guards should get paid about the same as a security guard and therefore I'll use that minimum wage. Working as a car guard doesn't quite provide the same income security as working for a wage, so to compensate for that, I'll almost double that wage to R30 per hour.
 
2. **Number of cars guarded**<br>
This is a hard factor to determine and one that can vary greatly. One parking lot I frequent is the Long Beach parking lot in Kommetjie. There's usually only 1 car guard there who is guarding approximately 30 cars. In more popular areas, such as Long Street, there appears to be 1 car guard for every 10 cars.
 
3. **Time spent guarding**<br>
This is the time spent away from your car and is another factor subject to variation. If I go watch a movie, it could be 3 hours, maybe 2 hours for a restaurant etc.
 
These 3 factors will allow you to quite accurately price a car guard service. Vary the latter 2 factors based on the situation, round the numbers and ballpark figures so you can calculate it on the fly.
 
*Example 1*: 2 hours at Long Beach:<br>
30x2/30 = R2
 
*Example 2*: 4 hours at Long Street:<br>
30x4/10 = R12
 
The actual mathematical formula to remember is:
 
**30x(HOURS)/(CARS)**
 
Personally I think that's too much effort so I'll probably just use R5 if I was gone for about an hour or more and R10 if I was gone for 3 or more hours. It's fair compared to the minimum wage and still a bit less than paid parking garages.
 
Remember to update the hourly wage with inflation. Drive safe!
